# Web2Native Bridge - Emulator
This repository contains all code for building and testing an emulation of
the Web2Native Bridge concept
(https://cyberphone.github.io/openkeystore/resources/docs/web2native-bridge.pdf)
using the Google Chrome (desktop) browser.

The emulator code exploits Chrome's native messaging (https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/nativeMessaging)
featured in a single universal Chrome extension.

Applications callable by the Web2Native Bridge emulator **must** be written in Java and stored in a for the purpose
dedicated directory.  This limits unpleasant surprises
if you accidentally navigate to a malicious page since
an improperly designed native message extension could enable web access to *any* local application!

### API
The Web2Native Bridge emulator extends the **navigator** object by a *single* method **nativeConnect**(*NameOfTargetApplication*) which
returns a JS promise to a **port** object.

The **port** object supports the following methods and events:
* **postMessage**(*JSONObject*)
* **disconnect**()
* **addMessageListener**(function(*JSONObject*))
* **addDisconnectListener**(function())

An example which could be hosted in an ordinary (*non-privileged*) web page:
```javascript
navigator.nativeConnect('com.example.w2nb.sample').then(function(port) {

    port.addMessageListener(function(message) {
        // We got a message from the native application...
    });

    port.addDisconnectListener(function() {
        // Native application disconnected...
    });

    port.postMessage({greeting:'Native app, how are you doing?'});
    // Note: JS serialization makes the above a genuine JSON object

    port.disonnect();  // Not much of a conversation going on here...

}, function(err) {
    console.debug(err);
});
```
The argument to **nativeConnect** holds the name of the specifically adapted local application to invoke.   The current scheme uses a Java-inspired dotted path pointing to a subdirectory and JAR-application having this name.

### Architecture
The Web2Native Bridge emulator always invokes a central proxy located at <code>proxy/install/w2nb-proxy</code>.<br>

The proxy in turn dispatches a call to the specific target application located at<br><code>
proxy/install/apps/</code>*dottedpath*<code>/</code>*dottedpath*<code>.jar</code>.

Common Java libraries may be stored in <code>proxy/install/libs</code>.

For debugging purposes there is also a logging system writing data in <code>proxy/install/logs</code>.

All local I/O is between the browser, proxy and the callable applications
is performed through <code>stdin</code> and <code>stdout</code>.

### Installation
Prerequisites: You need to have Java SE version 7 or 8 installed to run the Web2Native Bridge emulator. OS/X and Linux
installations also presume that **clang** respectively **g++** is available.

1. Clone the **web2native-bridge** repository or just download the ZIP via GitHub to any free directory
2. Install the Chrome browser extension available in <code>extension/src</code> as described in https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/getstarted#unpacked
3. Update the property "allowed_origins" in <code>proxy/install/org.webpki.w2nb.json</code> so that it matches the value generated by the Chrome browser
4. Start a terminal window and move to <code>proxy/install</code>. Then run the <code>install-proxy</code> script that suits your platform

Now you can try the sample application (see next section) since it is installed by default.

Please don't hesitate contacting me if you run into problems during installation or execution of the emulator!

### Sample Application
The HTML file <code>sample1/demo/sample1.html</code> does approximately
the same thing as the application depicted in
http://www.cnet.com/news/google-paves-over-hole-left-by-chrome-plug-in-ban/
albeit with two major differences:
* The sample application runs in an ordinary web page
* The Web2Native Bridge browser extension is fully generic and can support any number of very different applications

The native part of the sample application resides in <code>proxy/install/apps/org.webpki.w2nb.sample1/org.webpki.w2nb.sample1.jar</code>.

### Security Considerations
Since an emulator *by definition* isn't the "real thing" some limitations apply. That is, the Web2Native Bridge
emulator is *not intended for production* since it doesn't support the following security measures:
* Native application vetting infrastructure
* HTTPS information
* Site-blocking support and associated administration
 
Although not entirely comforting, Chrome's native messaging framework also lacks these qualities...

In addition, the scheme injects code in every web page visited which is a core "feature" of Chrome extensions
slowing down execution.  It is probably wise disabling the extension (using Chrome *settings*) when not using it.
